We are talking about that you
have identified two segments, you have
two segments, those that are
aware of climate change and
those that are not.
You are segmenting them according to that.
What variable are you using?
Well, it is a variable of attitude,
depending on your attitude
to something specific, in
this case, to climate change.
If we had to choose one segmentation
variable, one, but the one
that helps us most to adapt
our proposal to each of the
segments, to adapt our messages,
etc., which would be?
I think the most powerful of all is
to segment according to what they
buy you for, the benefit that each
of your customer segments
are looking for.
Because in the end, yes, they will have
different attitudes, they can have,
demographically, because they will
have an age, a profession, whatever
it is, right?
But really the most important thing
in the end is the benefit they
seek in you.
If you have to choose a variable,
this is the option.
Firmographic variables are like
demographic variables, which is what
happens to B2B models.
We have B2C.
This is a question a little to pile.
The firmographic variables are
the size of the company, the number
of employees and so on.
Psychological and behavioral
variables, what are they?
To know who they are, to know how they
are, to better understand the relationship
with our customers.
The right answer is how our
customers are.
Think we’re talking about segmenting
them according to their attitudes,
their profile, how they are, conservative,
things like that, right?
Cosmopolitan, adventurous, well,
because they help us understand
how our customers are.
In a gym, we segment according to
the benefit they are looking for.
What segments would come out?
Those who want to lose weight, those
who want to have a good time, those
who want to gain muscle mass,
are clearly benefits.
We are segmenting according to
the benefits.
If we look at the other two, those
who go to collective classes, do
cardio, because in this case we
are segmenting, for example, according
to how they use us.
What is the value of our offer,
of everything we offer?
Or those who go to noon, those who
go in the morning, because it is
also a segmentation based on use.
Therefore, it is clearly the first.
To identify your customer people
you must cross all the variables,
all.
Remember that you already know
how to segment by many variables,
age, gender, use, profile, for what,
what you think of the competition,
etc.
Because what you do is cross all,
you will get thousands of customer
people out, so it is impossible.
How can you identify your customer
people?
Because there are two options, from
segmentation and research or directly,
and this I usually recommend,
is that you identify specific customers,
that you fix on specific customers
with name and surname that are
representative of your customer
segments and that what you
do is focus on them.
And even if you think it’s not a representative
sample, I’m sure if you have chosen
them well and you study them
and analyze how to sell them better,
etc.
And you have them very present, it will
help you sell a lot more to your
entire market.
So both options are good.
To describe and be able to sell
better to your customer person,
that is, to understand it better,
you must always use all the variables,
all, sex, profession,
etc.
What if there are no variables like in the
typical templates, those that are on
the Internet?
No is no.
Sometimes these variables are not
important and what they do is complicate us.
And what we have is to incorporate
the things that are truly important
and representative of that customer
person that has gone to understand
you better and sell you
better.
From each of your customer people
you should analyze, among many other
things, you have to analyze many
things, you already have the templates,
and you have to make a lot of effort
in that, in understanding from
all the possible perspectives
that we have seen.
Which channels are the right ones?
What do you think of you and your competition?
What is most valuable?
All the previous ones, among others.
How is the best way to understand
why they buy us, why they don’
t buy us, and generally understand
anything about our
customers?
Here I say that it doesn’t count
for the outcome because we haven’t
talked about it, but really the best
way to always understand your customers
is by asking them in interactions
as direct and personal
as possible.
There are many people who love
surveys, but they almost
never get good insights,
good conclusions.
Sometimes they serve to validate things
you previously identified, but
nothing more.
The Focus Groups, well, because they
are much better than surveys, but the
best thing about it is to sit down
or have direct conversations with
customers.
Inditex’s strategy is segmentation,
which is to target several
segments with proposals
adapted, in this case adapting
brands.
What advice would you give someone
to compete in a niche?
Remember that to compete in a niche
we have two options.
One, focus on a very specific
customer person who has a particular
pain or whatever.
And also what we can do is specialize
very much in a specific
product within a wider
range.
Here I usually put the example
of Pepe Chuletón, who does
it is specialize a lot in a
particular product.
Both answers are
good.
What advice would you give someone
who is creating a new
value proposal?
What you have to do is put a lot
of focus on the customer segment,
on your ideal customers.
You have to focus on them, understand
them very well and create a proposal
for them, for the people
who will buy you, who really
value your proposal.
And many companies or many people
do what it does is unfocus
attempting to address several
customer segments and in many
cases to create a proposal for
segments or for customer
person that will not even buy you.
We need to focus on early adopters.
Are you more likely to close
a sale with a customer you are
looking for or are not looking for?
When you are able to show the
need to a customer you were not
looking for, what happens is that
you have more chances of selling to him.
Because it is not in the market
looking, it is not comparing you
with competitors and others.
The customers who were not looking
for, how are they?
They are not aware of having
need, they feel need but have
not been searched, they do not
know the existing offer.
We can either find
or find the three parts.
The key to success among those
who are looking for in the market
of people who are looking for
a proposal, which is it?
You have a clear competitive
advantage because you have
to compete with others.
Once you have your business
model, what is your target
market?
This question is a bit difficult.
The TAM does not depend on your business
model, the TAM depends on the
overall market.
Your business model often does
what it does is condition
the SAM.
Imagine, we talked about the total
market, you can’t access the
total market because you only
sell online.
Your target market will
be online.
And now we talk about SAM, which
is the market you’re going to reach,
which you can get.
In this case, what does it depend on?
Why is Sam conditioned?
Because it is conditioned by the
plans you have, the money you have
to invest if you have a competitive
advantage, the position you have
today, of course, the starting point,
the strength and the plans of your
competitors will also depend on
the others, what they will do.
Those three answers are
correct.
Which estimates or method do you
consider to be more real-life when
you estimate from bottom to
top, such as the Samsung TAM,
or from top to bottom?
Well, because from top to bottom,
if you do it well, it’s usually
closer to reality.
It is harder to fall into the story
of the milk.